# Star Wars Catalog :sparkles: :paperclip:
A small project I did as a way to show off my coding skills in order to land an internship at [Redmind](https://redmind.se/).

It's sort of a catalog over different characters in the Star Wars universe, where you're able to see personal details about each character. The character information are fetched from [SWAPI](https://swapi.dev/).

Made with **plain Javascript**!

## Reflections
These are some thoughts about my work (struggles and that sort of thing) that I scribbled down in conjunction with my application for the internship, that may be relevant to put here for those that are *really* interested:

> I did struggle with getting my head around how to work with network requests through the SWAPI. This was one of the main areas that I felt that I never got a good basic understanding of during my Frontend education program. Which is unfortunate since it's a crucial area in web development as I understand it. So I had to spend quite a lot of time doing research on it - I initially tried to use some of the helper libraries provided in the SWAPI documentation, but to no avail. I got these CORS errors and wasn't sure how to get rid of those. So I decided this was a good opportunity to get my hands on the Fetch API as it seems like a popular and modern tool for fetching data via HTTP requests. Then I got confused about how to work with promises, so I had to spend time to get comfortable with this... etc - long story short is that I had to find out a satisfying way to retrieve network data, so I could integrate it in my application.
>
> Another challenge that appeared was how and where to add and remove event listeners that were invoked each time the app was updated. This was important since the listeners were added on top of each other, but never removed, which eventually culminated with network requests in the hundreds to the SWAPI (which has a threshold limit to how many requests you're able to do in one day). Problem was that I had to remove the listeners at different parts of the script (outside of the scope of their respective function) and I had to figure out how to structure my code in order to achieve this. I could have used the old fashioned "onevent" handlers, which you don't need to add or remove. The downside to that solution is that they're not as versatile since you're just able to assign a single event to the thing you want to interact with. So I wasn't happy with that.
>
> In retrospective I should probably have used a framework like React - it would have made writing code a bit less tedious. I chose to use plain Javascript since I initially thought that the task seemed basic enough and that much code wouldn't be necessary. Also I wanted to challenge myself not to use a framework in order to recap and freshen up my understanding of how to work with vanilla Javascript. It feels nice to have a somewhat good grip of it once different problems arise while using some framework on top of it. But while the project grew bigger, I sort of regret not taking advantage of the assets that React brings - which I have experience from using when developing the app I based my thesis project on earlier this spring. I was even tempted to rewrite everything from scratch (with React this time) those times when I occasionally got frustrated having to figure out how to do something with plain Javascript.
>
> Also, perhaps I should've spent some more time reading up on how to make network requests with the help of the Fetch API, before diving in headfirst trying to use it without a good understanding of how promises and such really works. It might have saved me some time in the end.
